[Marcus: Let's try to have one title per planet, so we keep track of how many planets we're planning here. I've marked topics and questions that I consider particular good or essential with a + or even a ++.]


## Bijections between finite sets (++)

__Boss level__ (theorem 2.1.4 from Fischer's Linear Algebra):
Sind $X$ und $Y$ endliche Mengen mit gleich vielen Elementen, so sind für eine  Abbildung $f : X \to Y$ folgende Bedingungen äquivalent:
i) f ist injektiv,
ii) f ist surjektiv,
iii) f ist bijektiv.

Remark: This theorem admits different proofs (e.g. proof by contradiction using the pigeonhole principle, proof by induction, etc). These different proofs use different APIs of finite sets.

Remark: use the tactic `TFAE` to prove the equivalence of the conditions. (if it's nice to use)


## Isomorphisms between finite-dimensional vector spaces (++)

Follow-up planet to the planet "bijections between finite stes".


## The lattice of subspaces 1 (++)
* Introduce lattices.
* Introduce the lattice of subspaces of a vector space under the inclusion order.

__Boss level__, option 1a: Show that the abstract definition of `U₁ ⊔ U₂` agrees with the more concrete description as  `span (U₁ \cup U₂)`.
__Boss level__, option 1b: Prove that the union of two subspaces of a vector space is a subspace if and only if one of the
subspaces is contained in the other.

## The lattice of subspaces 2 (+)

__Boss level__, option 2a: Show that the lattice of subspaces of a vector space satisfies the modular law.
__Boss level__, option 2b:  When does a collection of subspaces form a decomposition of the entire space?  (3 subspaces or general version with n subspaces)

Marcus: I would be happy with any one of the Boss levels in these lattice planets. I imagine that if you pick, say, 1b as a Boss level, you could still include 1a as a walk-through exercise that leads up to that Boss level. Similarly for 2a/2b.

## Vector spaces of infinite fields
Follow-up to planets on the lattice of subspaces.

__Boss level__:  Show that a vector space over an infinite field cannot be a finite union of proper subspaces.
` example {V : Type} [Module k V] (U W : submodule k V) : U ⊔ W = ⊤ ↔ U ≤ W ∨ W ≤ U := `


## The reals over the rationals -- abstract version (+)

__Walk-through__: Show that $ℚ^n$ is a finite dimensional vector space over $ℚ$.
__Boss level__: Show that $ℝ$ with its standard addition is an infinite dimensional vector space over $ℚ$.

Remark: Once of proof of the last part requires uncountability of $ℝ$: all finite linear combinations of rational is not going to span all of $ℝ$ because $ℝ$ is uncountable (we have this). [This is written in the game](Game/Levels/NewStuff/RealUncountable_01.lean)

## Unique factorization (++)

__Walk-through__: Show that there is no integer $n$ such that $n^2 = 2$.
__Boss level__: Show that there is no rational $r$ such that $r^2 = 2$.
__Boss level__: Show that $\sqrt{p}$ is not rational for any prime $p$.


## The reals over the rationals -- concrete version (++)

Follow-up to planets on unique factorization (and reals of rationals -- abstract version)

__Boss level__ Show that $\log p_i$ are linearly independent over $ℚ$ where $p_i$ are prime numbers.

This uses cardinality argument (cardinal_eq_of_finite_basis) and the unique factorization of integers into primes.

## Matrices 1

__Boss level__ every matrix can be written as a sum of a symmetric (A^+ = A) and a skew-symmetric matrix. (this might be in `mathlib` already, we should figure this out first.)

## Matrices 2 (++)

~~__Boss level__ Show that the space of $n \times n$ matrices with real entries is a vector space over $ℝ$. (`Fin n \to Fin n \to ℝ`) (`E_ij`) - Note: this is already in mathlib and can be done by inferInstance.~~


## Matrices 3 (+)
__Boss level__ Suppose $A$ is an $n \times n$ matrix with real entries. Show that the space generated by the powers of $A$, i.e. the set $\{I, A, A^2, A^3, \ldots\}$ is a proper subspace of the space of $n \times n$ matrices with real entries. ($n \ge 2$)

proof-sketch: any two matrix in the span of these vectors commute: S T = T S.


## Quotients (++)

__Boss level__ Any function $f \colon A \to B$ can be factored into three functions as $f = i \circ g \circ q $ where $q$ is a surjection, $h$ is a bijection, and $i$ is an injection. (This is the first isomorphism theorem for sets.)

Here's how we are going to frame this statement in the game:

```lean
Statement (f: A -> B) :
  ∃ (q : A -> C) (h : C -> D) (i : D -> B), Surjective q ∧ Bijective h ∧ Injective i ∧ f = i ∘ h ∘ q :=

```

Alternatively, we can ask the user to provide an instance of the factorization structure:
```lean
def Fact (f: A -> B) : Type :=
  C : Type
  D : Type
  q : A -> C
  h : C -> D
  i : D -> B
  surj : Surjective q
  bij : Bijective h
  inj : Injective i
```


### Alternative questions for quotients
1. Construction of the field $𝔽_p$ via quotient construction of its underlying cyclic group for a prime number p.
2. (Advanced) (Gaussian Coefficients) Let $V$ be an $n$-dimensional vector space over $𝔽_p$. Show that the number of subspaces of $V$ is given by the Gaussian Coefficients.

TODO: I will break down the question 2 into four separate parts (Sina.)

* Could use tensor product of vector spaces?
* (1st) Isomorphism theorem. Two questions about this: set, vector spaces

## Trace (++)
__Boss level__ Suppose $f$ is a linear transformation over the space of $n \times n$ matrices such that $f(A B) = f(B A)$ for all $A, B$. Show that there exists a scalar $c$ such that $f(A) = c \mathrm{tr}(A)$ for all $A$.


__Boss Level__ every linear map on the space of $n \times n$ matrices is of the form $\mathrm{tr}(A \; \bullet)$ for some matrix $A$.

__Boss Level__ Show that the trace of a matrix is the sum of its eigenvalues.

__Walk through__:
- ~~Show that $\mathrm{tr} (A A^T) \ge 0$ and the equality holds if and only if $A = 0$. (Proof in the repo, but not part of any levels yet.)~~
- Show that for any matrix $A$ the map $\mathrm{tr}(A \; \bullet) : X \mapsto \mathrm{tr}(AX)$ is a linear map on the space of $n \times n$ matrices.
- Show that the map above is a zero map if and only if $A = 0$.
- Show that the map $A \mapsto \mathrm{tr}(A \; \bullet)$ is an isomorphism.
~~- Suppose $A$ is an $m \times n$ and $B$ is an $n \times m$ matrix. Show that the trace of $AB$ is the same as the trace of $BA$.~~


Marcus:  Good source of questions, just pick one or two of these.

## Determinantes (+)


## Van der Monde Matrix (???)
Fix $100$ distinct points $t_0, \ldots, t_{99}$ in the interval  $I = [ -1 ,1 ]$. Consider the map $L \colon \mathbb{R}^{200} \to \mathbb{R}^{100}$ defined by the assignment
$$ c = (c_0,...,c_{199}) \mapsto (p_c(t_0),...,p_c(t_{99})) $$
where  $p_c = \sum_{i=0}^{i=199} c_i x^i$, i.e. from vectors of coefficients of polynomials of degree $\leq 199$ to the vectors $(p_c(t_i))_{i=0}^{99}$ of values of such polynomials at nodes $t_i$.


1. Show that $L$ is linear.
2. Show that this map is represented, upon choosing the standard basis in $\mathbb{R}^{200}$ and $\mathbb{R}^{100}$, by the $100 \times 200$ _Vendermonde_ matrix.

$$ \begin{bmatrix}
1 & t_0 & t_0^2 & \dots & t_0^{199}\\
1 & t_1 & t_1^2 & \dots & t_1^{199}\\
1 & t_2 & t_2^2 & \dots & t_2^{199}\\
\vdots & \vdots & \vdots & \ddots &\vdots \\
1 & t_{99} & x_{99}^2 & \dots & t_{99}^{199}
\end{bmatrix} $$

3. Show that this map is never invertible.
